Updating guide’s content to use the Liberty AKS portal for creating cluster, resource group, and container (#129)
OpenLiberty/guide-cloud-azure: README.adoc

:system-api: http://[system-EXTERNAL-IP]:9080/system/properties
:inventory-api: http://[inventory-EXTERNAL-IP]:9081/inventory/systems

// =================================================================================================
// Introduction
// =================================================================================================

== What you'll learn

You will learn how to deploy two microservices in Open Liberty containers to a {kube} cluster on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).

> Kubernetes is an open source container orchestrator that automates many tasks involved in deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications. If you would like to learn more about Kubernetes and how to use it with the Open Liberty Operator, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/openliberty-operator-intro.html[Deploying a microservice to Kubernetes using Open Liberty Operator^] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is an open source container orchestrator that automates many tasks involved in deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications. To learn more about Kubernetes and how to use it with the Open Liberty Operator, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/openliberty-operator-intro.html[Deploying a microservice to Kubernetes using Open Liberty Operator^] guide.
```

There are different cloud-based solutions for running your {kube} workloads. A cloud-based infrastructure enables you to focus on developing your microservices without worrying about low-level infrastructure details for deployment. Using a cloud helps
you to easily scale and manage your microservices in a high-availability setup.

> Azure offers a managed {kube} service called Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). Using AKS simplifies the process of running Kubernetes on Azure without needing to install or maintain your own Kubernetes control plane. It provides a hosted {kube} cluster that you can deploy your microservices to. You will use AKS with an Azure Container Registry (ACR). ACR is a private registry that is used to store and distribute your container images. Note, because AKS is not free, a cost may be associated with running this guide. See the official https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/kubernetes-service/[AKS pricing^] documentation for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure offers a managed {kube} service called Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). Using AKS simplifies the process of running Kubernetes on Azure without needing to install or maintain your own Kubernetes control plane. It provides a hosted {kube} cluster that you can deploy your microservices to. You will use AKS with Azure Container Registry (ACR). ACR is a private registry that is used to store and distribute your container images. Because AKS is not free, a cost might be associated with running this guide. See the official https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/kubernetes-service/[AKS pricing^] documentation for more details.
```

> This guide will introduce IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS plan, a solution that automates most of the standard steps for provisioning WebSphere Liberty or Open Liberty on an AKS cluster. Once the initial provisioning is complete, you can further customize your deployments as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will introduce the IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS plan, a solution that automates most of the standard steps for provisioning WebSphere Liberty or Open Liberty on an AKS cluster. Once the initial provisioning is complete, you can further customize your deployments as needed.
```

without worrying about low-level infrastructure details for deployment. Using a cloud helps
you to easily scale and manage your microservices in a high-availability setup.

Azure offers a managed {kube} service called **Azure Kubernetes Service** (AKS). Using AKS simplifies the process of running Kubernetes on Azure without needing to install or maintain your own Kubernetes control plane. It provides a hosted {kube} cluster that you can deploy your microservices to. You will use AKS with an **Azure Container Registry** (ACR). ACR is a private registry that is used to store and distribute your container images. Note, because AKS is not free, a cost may associated with running this guide. See the official https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/kubernetes-service/[AKS pricing^] documentation for more details.

> This guide will introduce **IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS**, which solution automates the majority of standard steps involved in provisioning WebSphere Liberty or Open Liberty on an AKS cluster. Once the initial provisioning process is complete, you are free to customize deployments further.

Reviewer 2: **IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS** -> **IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS** plan

instructions, refer to the official https://docs.docker.com/install/[Docker^] documentation.
If you already have Docker installed, make sure to have it running.

> * *Azure subscription:* To run this guide, you will need an Azure subscription. Navigate to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Azure subscription*: To run this guide, you will need an Azure subscription. Navigate to the 
```

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/purchase-options/pay-as-you-go/[Microsoft Azure Purchase Options^] 
to create an account with your email and start a Pay-As-You-Go subscription. 

> * *IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS plan:* You will need to use the IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS plan on Azure marketplace. See the official

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS plan*: You will need to use the IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS plan on Azure marketplace. See the official
```

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/purchase-options/pay-as-you-go/[Microsoft Azure Purchase Options^] 
to create an account with your email and start a Pay-As-You-Go subscription. 

> * *IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS:* You will need to use the IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS on Azure marketplace. See the official

Reviewer 2: "...the IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS on Azure marketplace..." -> "...the IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS plan on Azure marketplace..."

> * *kubectl:* You need the Kubernetes command-line tool `kubectl` to interact with your Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *kubectl*: You need the Kubernetes command-line tool `kubectl` to interact with your Kubernetes cluster.
```

// no "try what you'll build" section in this guide because it would be too long due to all setup the user will have to do.

> == Provision deployment foundation with IBM Liberty on AKS 

Reviewer 2: "IBM Liberty" -> "Liberty"

=== Creating a resource group

A resource group is an Azure construct to manage a logical collection of resources for your cloud deployments on Azure. You must create a new resource group to manage the resources you need for your Kubernetes deployment.

> To create the resource group in an efficient way, check out the https://aka.ms/liberty-aks[IBM Liberty on AKS] tool and click on the `Create` button to start the process. 

Reviewer 2: "...[IBM Liberty on AKS] tool ..." -> "...[IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS] plan..."

> On the `Basics` pane. Under the `Resource group`, select `Create new` and type in **guideGroup** as the name of the resource group. Please note, the offer also supports to use an existing resource group while the group is required to be empty. 

Reviewer 2: - "...select `Create new`..." -> "...click on the `Create new` link ..."
- **guideGroup** -> `guideGroup`

image::AKS_tool_create_resource_group.png[AKS tool create resource group,align="center"]

> An Azure location must be specified. The metadata for your resources are stored at this specified Azure location. If resources are created later without specifying a location, these new resources will run in the same region that you specified for creating a resource group. Click on the `Region` drop down menu and select the desired location.

Reviewer 2: - insert a screenshot for the Region selection

However, AKS is not available in all regions. Make sure that the region you select is 
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/services/?products=kubernetes-service[compatible with AKS^].

> 

Reviewer 2: insert a screenshot for the Region selection

Select **Review + create** button to validate your setup. Once you complete the review and the validation process, select the **Create** button to initiate the deployment process, which may take up to 20 minutes to complete.

// =================================================================================================
// Uploading images to a container registry
// =================================================================================================

Upon completion of the deployment process, navigate to the resource group overview page in the Azure Portal. Review the created resource group and search for resources of the type `Container registry`. Locate the container registry that was created during the deployment. The name of the Container Registry will be used in `[registry-name]`.

> image::Locate_ACR.png[Locate ACR,align="center"]

Reviewer 2: - can make the text bigger in this screenshot?

// no "try what you'll build" section in this guide because it would be too long due to all setup the user will have to do.

== Provisioning resources for Liberty on AKS

To deploy your microservices to AKS with Liberty, you need to provision the necessary infrastructure. This involves creating an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster to host your microservices and an Azure Container Registry (ACR) to store and manage the container images.

=== Creating a resource group

> A resource group is an Azure construct to manage a logical collection of resources for your cloud deployments on Azure. You must create a new resource group to hold and manage the resources you need for your Kubernetes deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A resource group is an Azure construct to manage a logical collection of resources for your cloud deployments on Azure. You must create a resource group to hold and manage the resources you need for your Kubernetes deployment.
```

To create a resource group efficiently, navigate to the https://aka.ms/liberty-aks[IBM WebSphere Liberty and Open Liberty on AKS] plan and click **Create** to begin.

In the **Basics** pane, for the **Resource group** field, select **Create new** and enter `guideGroup` as the name of the resource group.

image::AKS_tool_create_resource_group.png[AKS tool create resource group,align="center"]

For the **Region** field, you must specify an Azure location. This location determines where the metadata for your resources is stored. If additional resources are created without specifying a location, they will default to the region you selected for the resource group. Click the **Region** drop-down menu and select the desired location.

image::Region_Selection.png[Region Selection,align="center"]

Note that AKS is not available in all regions. Make sure that the region you select is https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/services/?products=kubernetes-service[compatible with AKS^].

=== Setting up ACR and Kubernetes cluster on AKS

> After setting up the resource group, you can leave the remaining configuration at its default settings by skipping the **AKS**, **Load balancing**, and **Operator and application** panes. The default configuration will automatically set up an https://azure.microsoft.com/en-ca/products/container-registry[Azure Container Registry^] in the same region where your services are deployed, link it to your resource group, create an https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/tutorial-kubernetes-deploy-cluster?tabs=azure-cli[AKS cluster^], and deploy the https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty-operator/releases/latest[Open Liberty Operator^] to manage your Open Liberty applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you set up the resource group, leave the remaining configuration at its default settings by skipping the **AKS**, **Load balancing**, and **Operator and application** panes. The default configuration automatically sets up an https://azure.microsoft.com/en-ca/products/container-registry[Azure Container Registry^] in the same region where your services are deployed, links it to your resource group, creatse an https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/tutorial-kubernetes-deploy-cluster?tabs=azure-cli[AKS cluster^], and deploys the https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty-operator/releases/latest[Open Liberty Operator^] to manage your Open Liberty applications.
```

> For more information on configuring these options, refer to the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/howto-deploy-java-liberty-app?tabs=in-bash#create-a-liberty-on-aks-deployment-using-the-portal[Create a Liberty on AKS deployment using the portal] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on configuring these options, see the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/howto-deploy-java-liberty-app?tabs=in-bash#create-a-liberty-on-aks-deployment-using-the-portal[Create a Liberty on AKS deployment using the portal] documentation.
```

> Once you have reviewed the configurations, select **Review + create** to validate your setup. After validation, click **Create** to initiate the deployment, which can take up to 20 minutes to complete. You'll see a `Deployment is in progress` message, and when the deployment is complete, a `Your deployment is complete` message will confirm the creation of the ACR and AKS cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you review the configurations, select **Review + create** to validate your setup. After validation, click **Create** to initiate the deployment, which can take up to 20 minutes to complete. You'll see a `Deployment is in progress` message, and when the deployment is complete, a `Your deployment is complete` message will confirm the creation of the ACR and AKS cluster.
```

== Uploading images to a container registry

> Once your Azure Container Registry (ACR) is created, you can proceed to containerize your microservices and upload their Docker images to the ACR for storage and deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your Azure Container Registry (ACR) is created, you can containerize your microservices and upload their Docker images to the ACR for storage and deployment.
```

=== Logging into the container registry

Before uploading your images, you need to log in to your Azure Container Registry (ACR). Navigate to the resource group overview in the Azure Portal and locate the container registry that was created during the deployment. You will find the registry name listed under the **Name** column.

> For example, in the figure below, the registry name is `acrc75e71`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the following screenshot, the registry name is `acrc75e71`.
```

image::Locate_ACR.png[Locate ACR,align="center"]

> You will use this registry name in place of `[registry-name]` in the upcoming commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this registry name in place of `[registry-name]` in the upcoming commands.
```

Alternatively, if you prefer using the command line, you can retrieve the container registry information by running the following command:

[role=command]
```
az acr list --resource-group guideGroup --output table
```

> This command will return a table with the details of your ACR, including its name. For example, you will see an output similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command returns a table with the details of your ACR, including its name. Look for output similar to the following example:
```

docker images
```

> Your two images, `system` and `inventory`, should appear in the list of all Docker images:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your two images, `system` and `inventory`, are included in the list of all Docker images:
```

Pushing the images to a registry allows the cluster to create pods using your container images.

> First, retrieve your registry server name. This will typically be in the format `[registry-name].azurecr.io`. You can find this by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, retrieve your registry server name, which typically be in the following format: `[registry-name].azurecr.io`. You can find the server name by running the following command:
```

[role=command]
```
az acr show -n [registry-name] --query loginServer
```

> You will see an output similar to the following that will be used to substitute the `[registry-server]` value of the commands in below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look for output similar to the following example. 
```

[role="no_copy"]
----
"acr31a3a1.azurecr.io"
----

> Tag your container images with your registry by the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tag your container images with your registry by the following commands. Substitute your registry server name for the `[registry-server]` value.
```

[role=command]
```
docker tag system:1.0-SNAPSHOT [registry-server]/system:1.0-SNAPSHOT
docker tag inventory:1.0-SNAPSHOT [registry-server]/inventory:1.0-SNAPSHOT
```

> Finally, push your images to the registry by the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, push your images to the registry by running the following commands:
```

```

// =================================================================================================
// Accessing and configuring an AKS cluster
// =================================================================================================
== Accessing and configuring an AKS cluster

Since your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster is already set up, you can now access and configure it to deploy your microservices.

=== Connecting the AKS cluster to Kubernetes

> To manage and interact with your AKS cluster using Kubernetes, you need to integrate the AKS cluster credentials into your local Kubernetes configuration. This allows your local Kubernetes CLI (`kubectl`) to communicate with the AKS cluster for deploying and managing resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage and interact with your AKS cluster using Kubernetes, you need to integrate the AKS cluster credentials into your local Kubernetes configuration. This integration allows your local Kubernetes CLI (`kubectl`) to communicate with the AKS cluster for deploying and managing resources.
```

> To begin, obtain the information about the Kubernetes cluster created within the `guideGroup` resource group. You can do this by either viewing the resource group overview in the Azure Portal or executing the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin, obtain the information about the Kubernetes cluster created within the `guideGroup` resource group. You can find this information by either viewing the resource group overview in the Azure Portal or running the following command:
```

[role=command]
```
az aks list --resource-group guideGroup --output table
```

> The cluster name, formatted as `clusterXXXXXX`, should be identified in the following output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster name, formatted as `clusterXXXXXX`, is identified in the following output.
```

[role="no_copy"]
----
Name           Location    ResourceGroup    KubernetesVersion    CurrentKubernetesVersion    ProvisioningState    Fqdn
-------------  ----------  ---------------  -------------------  --------------------------  -------------------  -----------------------------------------------
clusterc75e71  eastus      guideGroup       1.29                 1.29.8                      Succeeded            clusterc75e71-dns-pazznf8n.hcp.eastus.azmk8s.io
----

> Merge the credentials of your cluster into your current Kubernetes configuration by using the `az aks get-credentials` command. Replacing `[cluster-name]` with the name of the cluster. The default Kubernetes configuration file that is updated with your cluster credentials is located within the `~/.kube/config` filepath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merge the credentials of your cluster into your current Kubernetes configuration by using the `az aks get-credentials` command. Replace `[cluster-name]` with the name of the cluster. The default Kubernetes configuration file that is updated with your cluster credentials is located within the `~/.kube/config` filepath.
```

kubectl get nodes
```

> The `kubectl get nodes` command outputs information about the node. Please ensure that the `STATUS` of the node is in the `Ready` state before proceeding with the subsequent steps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kubectl get nodes` command outputs information about the node. Ensure that the `STATUS` of the node is in the `Ready` state before you proceed. 
```

// =================================================================================================
// Deploying microservices to AKS
// =================================================================================================
== Deploying microservices to AKS

Now that your container images are built and your Kubernetes cluster is ready, you can deploy your microservices using the Open Liberty Operator. 

=== Creating a deployment definition

> The Open Liberty Operator provides custom resource definitions (CRDs) that allow you to define how your Open Liberty applications are deployed. These CRDs are described in a `yaml` file, which outlines the deployment details and services required for your application. All resources can also be deleted from the cluster by using the same `yaml` file that you used to deploy them. The [hotspot]`deploy.yaml` resource definition file is provided for you. If you are interested in learning more about deploying microservices using the Open Liberty Operator, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/openliberty-operator-intro.html[Deploying a microservice to Kubernetes using Open Liberty Operator^] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Open Liberty Operator provides custom resource definitions (CRDs) that define how your Open Liberty applications are deployed. These CRDs are described in a YAML file, which outlines the deployment details and services required for your application. You can also delete any resources from the cluster by using the same YAML file that you used to deploy them. In this guide, the [hotspot]`deploy.yaml` resource definition file is provided for you. To learn more about deploying microservices using the Open Liberty Operator, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/openliberty-operator-intro.html[Deploying a microservice to Kubernetes using Open Liberty Operator^] guide.
```
